hello everyone today we're making water
lily cupcakes these will be perfect for
Mother's Day because they're very pretty
I found this idea in a book called
cupcakes cookies and pie-o-my by karen
tuck and Alan Richardson I will put a
link in the description box to their
website if your just didn't checking the
book out for this recipe you will need
white chocolate or candy melting wafers
I'm holding candy melting wafers in the
video here I will put information about
those in the description box if you
don't know anything about them so go
check that out I've melted these in the
microwave at 50% power and if you find
the candy melts to be too thick you can
thin them out by using a little bit of
vegetable shortening or some low tastes
vegetable oil now to make the petals
you'll need some plastic spoons you need
plastic spoons because they have to be
flexible in order to remove the petals
after they've hardened I experimented
with this technique and I found that the
best way to do it was to put a little
bit of the melted candy melts on the
back of the spoon and then give them a
little tap that has two purposes it
spreads it out a little bit and it also
makes it nice and smooth if the petal is
not quite to your liking you can spread
it out a little bit more to get the
shape that you want just make sure that
you stay in the center of the back of
the spoon and don't go too near the
edges of the spoon if you go too near
the edges it'll be harder to remove the
petals you can also dip the back of the
spoon into the candy melts like I'm
doing here and I'm just gonna show you
what happens if you make large petals
that cover the entire back of the spoon
and one more time this is the technique
that I found worked best for me a little
bit of candy melts on the back of the
spoon spread it out into the rough shape
that you want
give it a little tap on the side of the
bowl just spread it out now if you don't
like the shape of the petal you can
alter it by just using a piece of paper
toweling just like that then you're
gonna put them in the refrigerator for
about five or ten minutes until the
candy melts have hardened now I want to
show you the one that I covered the
entire back of the spoon there we go a
very nice large petal and believe me I
tried many of these and each time I
tried to get them off they crack down
the middle or they split in the center
so covering the entire back of the spoon
is not work very well however if you
keep the petals small and put in the
center of the back of the spoon they
just pop right off and they're perfect
so when you make these make sure you
don't go too near the edges of the spoon
and that's why you need a flexible spoon
so that when you flex the spoon they pop
off so you bend the back of the spoon a
little bit then ice a cupcake in green
icing I'm just using regular buttercream
frosting I will put a link in the
description box and in the annotations
to the video where I show how to make
this frosting stick the petals in now I
found when I did this that the green
frosting rounded up in the center of the
flower and since I'm going to be adding
some yellow there I thought it was too
much so I removed a little bit with the
spoon this is yellow buttercream
frosting in a ziplock bag with the
corner cut off you just squeeze anchor
it to the green and then pull up and
release and it makes little pointy
yellow Peaks and just fill up the center
of the flower and you can make any kind
of flower with this I just thought that
I really like the water lilies so that's
why I'm decorating it this way now for
the next one in order to stop that
frosting mounting up in the center I
just put a little bit less frosting on
the top of the cupcake in the center and
then inserted some of the white petals
all the way around be gentle when you're
putting the petals on because they will
break
too hard on them so there we go the
white petals and then using the same
technique to put the yellow Center I
used about eight petals per cupcake for
this particular one and there they are
the buttercream frosting once it dries
we'll set and we'll hold onto the petals
quite nicely so they're pretty easy to
transport if you put them in a single
layer in a box and there's the completed
cupcakes what they did in the Karin tack
and Alan Richardson book is they made
these in a mini cupcake version and they
set them into a shallow dish of blue
jello so it looked like the water lilies
were floating in a pond and that was
quite pretty
so water lily cupcakes give them a try